                            NBU Online Attendence System
                    ------------------------------------------
Our intention to build this application is to convert offline attendence system to
online attendence system.

Targets to Achieve Through The Application:
    1.Online attendence system.
    2.Observation of different departmental activities by administration.
    3.Creating a platform to create an environment for the feeling of belongingness
    within NBU students.
    4.Student's and professor's attendence history storing in organized way.
    5.Individual batch classes history storing in organized way.
    6.Indivudual departmental activities history storing in organized way.

SYSTEM BUILDING PROCESS:

Total users for this application is five:
    1.administration    
    2.Professor
    3.HOD
    4.Departmental Official Assistant
    5.Student

Functionalities for Each Users:
    1.Administration:
        Administration will handle the whole process.All the required data regarding 
        each department will be provided by the admin.Admin also will be able to monitor
        any type of activities done by other users.
        Functionalities are:
            1.Adding department details:
                To add a new department,admin has to fill up a form with data like-
                    i.department name
                    ii.unique 5 alphabetic departmental code.
            2.Adding Professors:
                After creating a department,admin has to add all the professors on that
                department.To add a professor admin has to provide data like-
                    i.Professor name
                    ii.Professor email id
                    iii.Joining date as professor
                After submission of the form data professor's account will be created.
                During creation of professor's account, system will create an auto 
                generated registration number and 6 digit password for the account 
                that will be used during professors account log in.The account details
                will be provided to the professor's email id during creation of the 
                account.
                    Example:
                    Registration Number:2023COMSC0001(Joining Year+department Code+professor serial number)
                    Password:123456
            3.Adding HOD:
                Admin will add the departmental HOD to give the authority to perform
                departmental tasks.
                To add the hod, admin has to fill up a form where admin has to select
                hod name out of all professors and has to provide the joining date as 
                hod.
            4.Monitoring a particular departmental activity:
                Admin can go to a department page and see all the activity details parformed
                by the department.

    2.HOD :
        HOD will be the in charge of all activities of a deprtment.Departmental other 
        functionalities will open by the hod.
        1.Adding New Session Batch:
            Each session year new session Batch will be created.To add a new batch,the 
            data are needed as-
                a.session-starting year
                b.session end year
                c.all subjects on that semester
            Both data will create an unique sessionId for the batch.
            Example:
                start Year:2021
                End Year:2023
                Department Code:COMSC(for computer science)
                Session Id:2123COMSC
        2.Adding Student:
            Students will be added to a particular batch with the data like:
                a.Student name
                b.Student email-Id
                c.Student date of birth
            During creation of the student account,system will generate an unique
            registration number for the student.The account details will be provided 
            on students email id.
            Example:2123COMSC0001
                (sessionId+student's serial number)
        3.Removing Student:
            Hod will be able to remove/delete a student from a batch.
        4.Adding Class Routine:
            Hod will upload the routine for weekly basis.Hod has to select the subject 
            and the professor name for a particular subject on a period for a particular
            day.

        5.Adding Departmental Official Assistant:
            Hod has to add an official assistant by providing data like-
                a.Assistant name
                b.Email id
            During addition of the assistant an auto generated password will be created
            and details of the account will be send to the provided email id.
        
    3.Departmental Official Assistant:
        Official assistant will help the hod to perform few tasks.
        1.Opening the departmental activity:
            To start class activities official assistant has to open the departmental
            lock.To open departmental activity assistant has to fill up a form by
            typing "OPEN" on it.
        2.Getting Professor's Attendence:
            Departmental assistant will get the attendence of each professor.
            Professor will be able to take class attendence only after giving the 
            attendence to departmental assistant.
        3.Closing the department:
            After complition of all activities departmental assistant has to close the 
            department by typing "CLOSE" on the closing form.

    4.Professors:
        1.Logging-In:
            Professor has to log in his/her account by providing registration number 
            and password on login form.After logging in professor will be able to perform
            all other tasks.
        2.Taking Class Attendence:
            a.After logging in professor will be redirect on home page.In home page
            professor can see all his/her classes for the day.
            b.For a particular class professor has to click the given link to go to
            the class details.
            c.Class details page will show all the students enrolled for that class.
            d.Professor has to select all the present students on attendence list and
            submit it.
            e.done
        3.Seeing Own Activities:
            Professor wll be able to see his/her all activities for a particular session
            year.
        4.Upload Profile picture:
            Professor will able to upload his/her profile picture.
        5.Logging-Out:
            Professor can log out to go out from the system.

    5.Students:
        1.Logging in:
            To log in student has to provide his/her registration number and date of birth 
            as passwort to log in.
        2.Seeing Day's Clsses:
            After logging in student will redirected on home page.Home page will show
            all the classes for the day.
        3.Seeing Attendence Details:
            Student can see his/her attendence details for a particular semester.
        4.Upload Profile picture:
            Studnet will able to upload his/her profile picture.
        5.Logging-Out:
            Studnet can log out to go out from the system.



INTERFACE DESIGNING:

    1.Guest-home page:
        The very first page of the application will be the guest home page.This page
        will contain informations like:
        1.All professors 
        2.All Students
        3.Parcentage of students attendence for the day.
        4.Parcentage of all professors for the day.
        5.All departmental batches with 100% attendence for the day.
        6.log-in page link

    2.All Departments Page:
        This page will show the list of all present departments on the campus.
        1.Department name will be linked with departmental details page.

    3.Departmental Details Page:
        This page will contain all the informations related to the department.
        Informations are:
        1.All running batches.
        2.All professors.
        3.Head of the department.
        4.All present students for the day.
        5.List of all present professors.
        6.All pass out batches link.
        7.Department info details.
        8.All classes taken on the day.
        9.Logging in link for student and departmental official.

    4.Session Batch Details Page:
        This page will contain all the informations related to the session-batch.
        Informations are:
        1.Batch info details.
        2.All Students.
        4.All present students for the day.
        6.All classes taken on the day.

    5.Departmental Activity Details Page:
        This page will show all the active days details with all classes for a 
        particular session year.

    6.Session Batch Activity Details Page:
        This page will show all the active days details with all classes for a 
        particular semester.

    7.Professor's Home Page:
        After logging in professor will appear on the professor's home page.
        1.Professor's information details with profile photo.
        2.All classes for the day.
        3.Link for professor's all activities.

    8.Class Attendence Taking Page:
        1.Class details.
        2.List of all enrolled students for that batch.
        3.Submission of class attended students list.

    9.Professor's Activity Details Page:
        This page will show all the active days details with all classes for a 
        particular session year.
    
    10.Student's Home Page:
        After logging in student will appear on the student's home page.
        1.Students's information details with profile photo.
        2.All classes for the day.
        3.Link for students's all activities.

    11.Student's Activity Details Page:
        This page will show all the active days details with all classes for a 
        particular semester of a student.

    12.Class Details Page:
        1.This page will contain class details.
        2.The list of all attended students on that class.

    13.Log In Page:
        From this page professor and administration can log in the account by providing
        registration number and password.
